## basics

Filter Spirit is written completely in C++17 - planning to move to C++20 once modules and the tooling for new include-less build system is ready.

Because the code goes pretty hard on language features, you might get problems when trying to build this project using older Microsoft Visual compiler versions. I recommend to update it to 2019 version or use Clang or GCC instead.

During development, with the help of people behind boost spirit, a [GCC bug](https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=89381) has been discovered. You need GCC 9.0+ or to write [workarounds as in this issue](https://github.com/boostorg/spirit/issues/465#issuecomment-464537240) into `lib/parser/ast.hpp`.

## architecture & design

FS code uses a ton of boost so get ready to see really lots of it. I recommend to read respective boost library tutorials before trying to change any related code.

Most of the program logic is realized using [monadic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monad_(functional_programming)) interfaces (as opposed to traditional object oriented approach using abstract classes and dynamic dispatch). In C++ this means a lot of optionals, variants, tuples and (generic) lambdas. This has important tradeoffs:

- In traditional OOP, you write types (classes) which implement behavior (virtual functions). It is easy to add a new type, but hard to add a new behavior (function) because in such case the code of all classes needs to be changed to implement new function.
- In monadic approach, you write behaviors (functions) which are implemented against types (monads: variants, tuples, optionals, etc). It is easy to add a new behavior, but hard to add a new type because in such case the code of all functions needs to be changed to support the changed monad.

Additionally:

- In monadic approach, variant types do not need to have anything in common.
- Since monadic interfaces use a different way of dispatching, they do not require dynamic memory allocation and use through pointer indirection.

Because the core program logic is mostly a parser+compiler, a lot of code is dedicated to work with the abstract syntax tree. Such code is very often case-specific so there is a rather low reuse of code - most functions are used only once. For this reason, monadic approach is a good choice because it's much more common to need to add a new behavior (new feature/function) than to add/modify a type (grammar change).

## dependency overview

- `boost::spirit::x3` - the heart of this project. Through abuse of C++ templates and operator overloading, the library allows to define grammars for an LL-infinite parser at compile time. This saves a ton of work in implementing the parser and debugging the whole string-find-if-else sphagetti code that is usually required to read non-regular grammars. There is [a short Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spirit_Parser_Framework) on how it works. The third library edition leverages newer C++ standards to offer simpler code and compiles significantly faster. FS grammar definitions reside in `lib/parser/detail/grammar_def.hpp`.
- `boost::fusion` and the preprocessor library: mostly dependencies of Spirit.
- `boost::optional` and `boost::variant` - they are used because Spirit does not yet fully support standard library equivalents. Outside the parser and compiler, standard library is preferred.
- `boost::program_options` - command line parser.
- `boost::date_time` - this is rather obvious.
- `boost::asio` and `boost::beast` - networking. Used to download data from poe.ninja and poe.watch.
- `boost::filesystem` - file I/O.
- `boost::system` - error handling, used in filesystem and networking.
- `boost::unit_test` - obvious. Boost Test library might be a huge overkill when Google Test is much simpler, but since FS already uses a ton of boost there is not much point in dragging more dependencies.
- `nlohmann::json` - JSON parser library. Might switch to `boost::json` once it gets official approval and is integrated into official boost repository.
- OpenSSL - implementation of network cryptography. Dependency of ASIO.
- Better Enum library - copied into utility directory. Offers a macro to define and automate some boilerplate to avoid shortcomings with C++ enums.

## program structure

Directories:

- `lib` - core library code
- `cli` - command line interface executable
- `gui` - graphic user interface executable (soon)
- `test` - test runner executable

`lib` subdirectories (each subdirectory has a separate namespace):

- `network` - Boost Beast + Boost ASIO stuff, JSON parsing and item price data manipulation.
- `lang` - all stuff that is related to FS language (keywords, types, item definitions etc).
- `parser` - parser implementation using Boost Spirit X3. Refer to X3 documentation to learn it before trying to understand the magic that is happening there.
- `compiler` - code that takes AST generated by the parser, item price data and outputs filters or errors. Performs semantic analysis.
- `log` - logger and string utility functions. Might try `boost::log` at some point.
- `utility` - can be used anywhere. Contains STL helpers and Better Enum library.

Except tests, no source file may include code from other `lib` part `detail` namespace.

Internal dependency graph:

```
lang -> parser -> compiler
                           \
                            > generator
                           /
          lang -> network
```
